welcome to sam's business growth show
i'm sam dunning a digital marketing
sales and business growth evangelist
tune in and subscribe today as i'll be
interviewing business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe you'll be learning their story
how digital marketing has helped them
along the way and exclusive tips
insights to help you skyrocket your own
business
[Music]
hi everyone uh welcome back to a fresh
episode of sam's business growth show
i'm delighted today to be joined by the
legend that is mike
winit uh by day he puts get rich quick
gurus to the test with his entrepreneur
series on youtube
and by night he creates videos and
content to help companies generate more
business
with his company i am productions mike
a very warm welcome to the show mate
looking forward to this how are you
doing
all right yeah how are you good yeah not
too bad cheers pal
all good on this side so um plenty of
stuff i want to chat through today mate
plan for the plan for the podcast plan
for the show it's ready to do about 30
minutes
kind of cracking through your story that
kind of stuff
a few business growth tips a lot of
people might know you mike
as uh being uh someone on linkedin it's
a bit controversial
so i know from my experience i think it
must have been about two to maybe two
and a half years
years ago i saw you gotta come out
woodwork started putting these
controversial posts on linkedin and i
thought
who's this guy it's this stuff's pretty
funny and it seems to be getting quite a
lot of traction and i know from there
you've
you've obviously run your series on
youtube and some people might only think
that you're doing this stuff
and kind of interviewing entrepreneurs
putting out funny content and what they
may not realize is you've actually run
and sold a successful business for about
eight million quid or so
and now you're doing the same with i am
production so i'd love to chat through
learn a bit more about your background
mike
learn a bit more about your story how
you why and how you started this
business so for anyone that's
that doesn't know the real background
behind mike could actually learn learn a
bit more and put the
pieces of the puzzles together mate get
learnt that's what's gonna happen here
yeah that's it so um yeah if we could
if we could start from from the top
right if you could tell us a bit more
about what you're doing at your previous
company and
why you started it how you built it up
to be such a successful code to the
point of selling i think that would be
quite interesting for everyone well the
dream is to put all this into a course
a 67-step guide and sell it to all you
guys for 1997. that's my actual dream
but the reality is there's so many
variables outside of your control that
result in whether you do get a big exit
or not that i can't really put it in a
course and that's kind of what my issue
is with a lot of the entrepreneurs but
my original company was a online
learning and development company
and we made content
to assist corporate companies train
their staff so it could be anything on
um cyber security it could have been
data protection it could have been how
to upsell
um in retail while at the till so you
know you bought some trousers here
buy a belt with that so it was basically
training materials and that we provided
to
the learning and development teams
within these organizations for them to
use as part of a blended learning
approach
so i worked in l d basically and i come
up with the idea of that business with
three of my friends all from warrington
um
and it was a plan to
sort of create i hate using
sort of phrases like this but like the
netflix of learning so we looked at
everything that was wrong with
e-learning at the time and it was people
charged you per head
per course new content would come out
and then they try and charge you more
and we just thought
it's so outdated and also learn
development content especially
e-learning was
glorified death by powerpoint really
it's like a three-hour course
on time management like the irony
so no one wants to click next on slides
for three hours so it was almost like
how do we learn in real life so i would
go on youtube and i'd look at a video
and teach me how to
set my sky plus box in 30 seconds or how
to you know
what whatever you go on youtube and you
find a one minute two minute video so
why isn't learning development like that
so we just created a very short version
of e-learning
animated explainer video and that's why
in a lot of my content that i use now
you might notice that i use animations a
lot so um that was just because that was
our skill set in the previous business
so
it was basically why learn at work
different to how we learn at home it
didn't make any sense to me and then i
looked at what industry
i say i looked at it was it was the four
of us we looked at what was wrong with
the
e-learning industry and it was uh
overpriced
it was long contracts it was crap
content it was basically made by
computer geeks
um and not l d people so we just created
a style of learning that we would enjoy
and
where we were clever we didn't want to
compete with people's platforms
um we just wanted to make the software
that would work on anybody's platform
which meant then that we could partner
with people
and a very very long story short with
highs and lows
we had a three-year plan to scale the
business and then exit for 10 million
which we failed at we we took eight
million after two and a half years
job done job done simply
that's mad really i mean two years eight
million sold
which is a decent feat i mean what were
some of the
because like i was saying a lot of
people some of my mates that i've talked
to that have just seen you on linkedin
posting content literally just thought
that you
created these contributor videos you
created controversial content funny
content
content they enjoy but didn't actually
realize you set up this business i mean
i didn't until probably about six months
or so ago when i think i heard you on
the interview with
i think it's probably benjamin you
talked a little bit about it in your
background and stuff like that
um what did you do what was some of the
planning that made it happen so first
man
was it just because you found this gap
in the market or oh well it was partly
that but it was also partly because we
started with the end in mind so we
started with
we want to sell the business on this
date for this amount how do we make it
that worth that amount by that date
backward planned it
and then thought so we need to have x
amount of customers paying x amount
and we need to have these partnerships
we needed to look at who could
potentially purchase us in three years
time
so it was we were then making moves to
make that happen before we even had a
product really
and then it was like when you've got
your own business
it feels weird sometimes talking about
business when people just think that i
just [__] about and just take the piss
out of
entrepreneurs and stuff but yeah so i
had to look at
who would purchase again and when i say
i it was
all of us who could purchase this
product so what
companies do what we do what companies
do we complement
in that space and then you try and get
on their radar so we would create a
product so we knew we could sell that
business to
lms which is a learning management
system like an lms provider
or a learning platform that needed
content that was one person
or one business we could sell to but
equally
if they've got a learning platform
that's worth maybe fifty thousand or a
hundred thousand
for their clients they're making a five
thousand or ten thousand pound
additional ser purchase for content is
an easy sell that's an easy sell for
that company
so the natural thing for them to do is
to buy us offer our content to all their
existing clients
and then in theory offered their product
their learning
and management system to our clients
um and eventually that's what happened
so we proactively
partnered some learning management
system uh companies
so platform providers and then
proactively so we have two strategies to
exit
targeted other clients uh sorry other um
companies clients so it's a case of
either partner with us because
you can see it benefits your customers
number one that was our first sort of
target market to buy us
to exit with or
buyers because we're going to take all
your customers and we just went in and
absolutely steamrolled the competition
so we had people saying we wouldn't be
around in three years
uh sorry in three months let alone three
years and
it was them companies that the end were
trying to buy us because
we were taking all their customers we
absolutely
looked at everything that was wrong with
the industry so
why charge per head we would just power
a charger
um a cancel anytime monthly subscription
to these companies
so we were offering our our product at
sort of 10 of the cost of our
competitors
and really we were doing that not just
to make the money
we were doing it for number one to grab
market share straight away
but number two it hurts you more if
you're trying to sell content at 50
grand and i'm selling it
five grand it's costing you 45 grand
you see what i mean so you're losing
your client base to us
so while we're only making five grand we
weren't being greedy
but equally we thought it's overpriced
like if i make a digital product and it
goes that kind of goes on so i'm talking
about the controller so if i make a
digital product and you're a small
business with 20 people
and i charge you 500 pound a month to
use it if you then scale
and you grow to 30 people well
it makes no difference to me it's not
costing me anything more to make it
available to the extra staff in your
company
whereas all of our competitors saw that
as oh we can make more money here we can
charge it more for more users
but we didn't we just said well if you
scale and grow your business
brilliant it doesn't cost us more
whether you've got ten thousand staff or
a thousand staff
it's a digital product it's it's all
profit margin
so we didn't charge anymore so if your
business grew good luck to you we
weren't going to try and profit on that
and then we also didn't want to keep
customers
that didn't like working with us so if
you want to leave leave there's no
penalty of leaving just leave whenever
you want
we had a 99.3 retention rate
we lost like one client in three years
one client because what we did was so
different
and all it was it came down to the
simple thing is just
make a product that you would use
yourself and just be a company that you
would want to work with now i wouldn't
want to work with a company that's
trying to tie me into a four-year
contract
they wanted to charge me an extra
thousand pounds every time that two new
members of staff joined
every time a new legislation changed
happened it would then charges
an extra 50 pound per head to get the
latest training course and it made no
sense to me and i just thought
um this is an industry that's right to
be
uh to have a real alternative offer and
that's what i did
when i was a real business boy not
talking about on youtube
you made an interesting point off there
as well you're saying um that you
weren't
creating bespoke material as well like
you kind of had the material and you
could just keep rolling it out
so you didn't have to put loads of loads
but spoke is [__]
build it once sell it many times it's
like a
that's the easiest thing to do and
that's what happened so every week we
would release new content but it was the
same content being released to our 340
customers
so if i were at least um it'd be good
now let's
say if like i know brexit came in a
legislation change happening it could be
i don't know
uh is a good example so the mobile phone
laws changed and it was a
it went up to six points and two hundred
pound fine so we made that one course so
here you go advise all your staff
whether you be
a fleet company whether you be a haulage
company that it makes sense for your
staff to learn it but also everybody
drives to work so it kind of benefits
loads of different companies
but this is just an example yeah um
we make it once so it took us a week to
make let's just say we can roll it out
faster than any of our competitors
because they're trying to make a
three-hour version of it and to be
honest they're probably
they're big catalogs of courses we
didn't we were giving them sort of like
what's flavor the month training that's
popped up now so it was good because we
were young and we were
approaching from a different angle but
the point is we make that one course
and that course again gets released to
all 340 of our customers
they're all happy it took us a week to
make now imagine if i was doing a
bespoke piece of work for those 340
customers
it would take me probably two years to
do so that's why it was
make courses that benefited the majority
of your clients and some weeks the
course might not really benefit them but
because there was so much value in all
the other stuff it didn't it never
caused the problem
pretty much anybody that's in any shop
that you've been in on the high street
or brand that you use that was uk based
and we also launched in australia
america
used our training it's mad i could walk
down the high street and go they're one
of my customers they're one of my
customers
i'm talking everybody matalan mother
care topshop topman
boots um halfords
anybody the trafford center
um macarthur glenn cheshire oaks all
those kind but all those used us
all of them the football association we
absolutely just
steamrolled everybody for like two years
the point where they couldn't ignore as
they had to buy us
and were there any any particularly
tight situations in those two
years where things came kind of close to
cool or any uh
yeah so i mean how we first started how
we first started we tried to sell it to
recruitment companies to offer our
training
to candidates that couldn't get jobs
this was the very very beginning
yeah we've got a deal with monster
monster put out on a mailing list so i
don't know like 1.1 million people
we've got 11 inquiries we couldn't sell
that product at 40 pounds
we couldn't sell that product with 40
pounds because of 40 pounds and this is
a lesson our teacher now but i mean most
of you will probably know it's basics
but
we couldn't sell those courses to help
job seekers find jobs or candidates
number one because recruitment
recruiters you know a lot of them
aren't asked they're looking for a
placement instead of thinking our
potential i could sell to all the other
candidates that didn't get the job and
makes them one year
you know they couldn't sell that product
which is mad because we we had loads of
recruitment companies actually buying
our products to train their own stuff
they just couldn't sell it so we tried
it
initially with recruitments trying to
partner recruitment companies we
couldn't sell that product for 40 pounds
we had four inquiries
four inquiries at 40 pound as soon as i
then
changed who we targeted target the
affluent we were selling the same
product we couldn't sell for 40 pound
between 5 000 and 10 000 pound a year
the exact same product but what it was
the value to these companies was far
greater than it was so
that's an example of targeting the wrong
person
so target the affluent is probably one
of my biggest
um lessons or things to tell people that
they need to do if they want to grow a
business or scale a business or be
successful
if you're targeting someone with a low
value product but you're targeting
people that haven't got much money
that's a huge decision for them it's
easier to sell something to someone with
a 10 grand a year budget
than it is to sell so someone's only got
10 pound in the pocket at the end of the
week regardless of what the thing is
and you've just got to give that it's
that value they see so if your boots and
i can say
we can give you learning material to
train all your staff
um i don't know 20 000 stuff 30 thousand
staff and it's gonna cost you five
thousand pound a year or ten thousand
money whatever it might be
that's an easy decision for that budget
holder to make rather than
you're a job seeker you might only have
ten pounds to get the bus home
you're not gonna spend that ten pound on
these four training courses that might
help you
um get your next job wrong does that
make sense
makes perfect sense man and once you yes
so target the afghans that's what i did
i mean i listed the top 200 richest
companies in the uk and i went after
them first and i was going
after them before we even had a product
as in we only had four courses built
because again we weren't stupid and
didn't build a whole library of courses
and then try and sell it because that's
pointless we basically made
four courses and then
sold a list of these are things that
we're going to be making but if you come
on board with us now you can help shape
what we release next that we will make
more
content that you want us to make sooner
so
the reason why we released one of our
biggest usps was new content every week
but the reality was the reason why we
released a new content every week is
because we were making it that week
we're making the content and then
release it on the friday monday tuesday
wednesday 30 we
research put the course together put the
training materials together the pdfs the
animated explainer videos
upload it to our um central hub our
customers will then go on
download it and then put it into their
own lms platform
so it's a target the affluent is a huge
thing you can sell the same
if you can't sell a product it might be
your targeting the wrong person rather
than the product being an issue
so that was bad and also like i didn't
pay myself we didn't pay ourselves for
like the first what nine months so
we we worked for nine months with no
money we were paying staff more than we
were paying ourselves
and we're paying some of them even
double triple what we were taking
ourselves but
we always believed in the process we got
an offer from google to do a 90 grand
piece of work when we'd not took a wage
we turned that down
the reason why we turned that down was
it was a three month contract
again bespoke [__] while it would
have been nice to win a 90 gram bit of
work
it would have took away from the plan
which was to sell this business in three
years and we ultimately would have been
working for google for 90 grand
and i didn't want to work for someone
i wanted to work on our business and so
we turned down google that was a 90
grand offer
to go and make courses that we were
selling for 500 a month so we turned
down 90 grand to
because we knew we make that course and
sell it to maybe
five clients at 500 pound per month that
would be worth more to us
two years down the line when we were
doing the um exit when we were leaving
the business
so you didn't take your eyes off the end
goal it sounds like yeah what's the
point it's like we we had um
we had a question a question we had a
quote on the wall does it make the boat
go faster
and if it didn't we didn't do it
and that was it it sounds mad like you
know
going home and telling your family
always turned down 90 grands worth of
work today
but i'm not taking a wage for the next
two months it's hard for some people to
get their head around that but
like we i believed in what we were doing
so much
i had no doubt after maybe two months
three months in that business that um
i'd be a millionaire in three years no
doubt at all like
other people just had my money at that
point and i remember telling one of my
friends at a party actually at a
christmas party
and he was like yeah whatever and then
we're not friends anymore weirdly he was
friends up until until we sold and then
he wasn't friends with me like saw his
ass a little bit
but i was 100 confident that it would
work but not in the point like
deluded i'm a entrepreneur i'm oh look
i'm a really successful guy i mean i
don't wear
jewelry or don't drive a flash car none
of that [__] really
i was just quietly confident not
fake it before you make it i wasn't
living beyond my means i wasn't
billy big balls i just 100 believed
in the end goal and i believe that
because we're back with plans if we just
executed that plan it would work and it
did
that was it strategy mike now that's i
mean
like you say you focus on your goals
i'll say something about here i never
knew who garyvee was grant cardone was
ty lopez i'd not heard of
any of these people at all until after i
saw my business
i'd never i didn't even know this whole
world that i now i'm involved in existed
and i didn't sit there looking for
motivation or looking for a youtube clip
or looking for a shortcut in a course to
teach me how to achieve these things it
was just
you just look at the most successful
people in the world not
one of and i'm talking about who are
sort of like widely regarded as the most
successful business people in the world
right now
and this like blows my mind with what
i'm doing at the moment
warren buffett isn't telling warren
buffett isn't telling you he works two
hours a week from his laptop in the
bahamas
he's not trying to sell you his one
secret hack that nobody knows to in
stocks and shares elon musk isn't
telling you he works four hours a week
from wherever
it's like the answer is already out
there we already know
you've got to own what you're doing as
in the only ip or it's got to be your
own creation if you want to make real
wealth i suppose
rather than affiliate links with this
person or
a share of that person or reselling this
i'm talking like this is just a
generalization there are
obviously examples of like that but
they're unicorn examples
um work hard
you know and it was just like so you
already know the answers if you're
online looking for how do i become a
millionaire
in 12 months how do i become successful
at whatever in 90 days you're asking the
wrong questions
like if you're searching for those
things now i
almost guarantee you're not going to
achieve that that thing that you're
searching for
because you're asking the wrong question
you are only as good as the questions
you ask
so and i think that's like one big thing
that it does made in sometimes i get
messages all the time on dms
oh well you got rich quick it was two
and a half years but it wasn't two and a
half years because i'd worked in startup
businesses for six years
before i felt confident enough to have a
good crack at it myself
so i had seen what had worked and what
hadn't worked in other people's
businesses
and i got paid for my learning so
i was being paid to sit there and be
like a sponge and see
businesses started up from day one
pretty much in one of the business the
wording
so i'd seen the highs and lows and i
thought well i'll take a bit of that
that makes sense to me or i don't think
they've done that quite right or
that's quite quite clever and i'll say
to anybody that wants to
run their own business or be successful
and i want to say successful there i
mean
if you want to talk a monetary figure be
obviously success is
measured in so many different ways but
we'll just take it as
let's just say i want to be a
millionaire and let's just say we'll all
just agree that that is a
the definition of success just for this
bit
why would you pay someone 12 grand to
let you join their inner circle
facebook group where it's just copy and
paste you know
cookie cutter content one size fits all
and you're ultimately being mentored by
some other idiot that's six months ahead
of you in the process
because that's ultimately what most
these things are um
why would why would you do that and then
potentially lose your 12 grand and not
really get the one-to-one
um coaching or mentoring that you need
when you could go and do
all that learning and get real-world
experience in
a startup business with less than 10 15
20 people there's thousands of them in
the uk
there are thousands of them in the uk
and they will pay you
for your learning so you'll get paid to
do a far
better schooling than you'll ever get
from any of these facebook gurus these
instagram gurus these
buy my course for 1997. it blows my mind
really
that's all i did that's all i did and
read books i want i want to learn
something i go read some books on it do
some research on it
not how can i shortcut that learning
learn that in
seven steps or do you know what i mean
yeah i got it man i mean like you say
there's no shortcuts and
hopefully this is a bit of an eye-opener
for anyone that's tempted by this is
that john annoys me like
work smart not hard and it's like you
kind of misunderstood that
like you think oh if you're working hard
you're doing it wrong it's not
it's it's work hard at the smart stuff
like put all their hours into the smart
stuff not
i'll work two hours and work hard at
work smart
it's like you're only that's 50 of the
effort there i think
just before we move on mike not as well
in real life am i
we'll get to that in a bit but when when
you run you made an interesting point
earlier mate so you
say you switch the approach you targeted
the affluent the people that actually
could benefit from the product you moved
to the 5 to 10k
mark you made a list of like 200 target
accounts
yeah what was your approach because you
said work smart and work smart work hard
which makes sense
what was your approach to actually gain
these on board as customers was all cold
calling and outreach and stuff like that
or did you have a
specific strategy linkedin made me a
millionaire 100
anyone that can't get leads off linkedin
and can't win business on linkedin
crazy that is an absolute goldmine if
you aren't getting clients and i'll say
this now
that's why now and this is where i'm
different to other content creators or
videographers or people that say oh we
can get you leads
your only business you've ever done is
being a content creator
on linkedin you've never run a business
and actually got leads and scaled a
business and sold a business that's for
most of them
there might be exceptions but again
generalization
i've done that i've done that and made
millions and millions of pounds and
that's not
a claim that's fact it we sold it to
companies on the nasdaq you can go and
find that you can research that it's all
there
um so it was linked in
and it was cold calling those leads as
well
but also strategic things so if we
released a course
on let's just say the mobile phone ones
are again a bit of a [__] example but
if we released a mobile phone course on
friday
i would then go and think well who would
benefit from that the most so every week
had a reason to call a different kind of
target market so it would be
anyone that's in haulage would be a good
one to call any taxi firms would be a
good call
any um
fleet managers would be a good call so
in theory now it'd be like oh here you
go we're releasing this course on friday
would you like to
have free access so you can train all
your drivers on the new rules of
uh mobile phone penalties so it's six
points 200 pounds
so it was a combination of linkedin and
cold calling
that's what i used so i suppose your
mates daniel disney and
benjamin it was a combination of those
two things but
um i knew exactly who i needed to target
on linkedin so it would be any company
that was sort of
sized between 250 staff to 5 000 staff
was like my sweet spot
if they had a learning and development
manager that meant that they had
that was my actual target that person in
that organization
and i would relentlessly go after them
playing content out and hoping for the
best you were actually specific you knew
who you wanted to target
yeah and it was and it was that this
content is specifically speaking to this
person this is what i do for clients now
it's like you tell me who you want and
then
i along with other script writers and
researchers and stuff that
can come up with a message that speaks
directly to that person and position you
as the person that they need to speak to
some of this content i see being put out
there it's like mind-blowing to me i
call it disposable content i see a lot
of these people doing
it's like getting 20 000 likes on this
post is [__]
it's nonsense what you want to be doing
is
creating evergreen lead generating
content that will continually drive
leads into your business
that's what you need to create that
speaks directly to your
ideal client avatar so i do this for
other businesses now
my ideal dream is to do it only for
people in warrington because
i this this is my town isn't it so
but i will work with other people but
yeah so that's all it was it was just a
through content
video and written content specifically
for people that i wanted to work with
and then they came to me
and it was like a tipping point it was
hard obviously for the first year first
year had 80 clients
um using us all corporate clients year
two we got 200 new clients who were on
280 and in year three we were on 340
all got through linkedin um but what
happened is because we had created
fans rather than customers l d
people move around a lot so they might
stay in an organization for six months
or 12 months or two years whatever it
might be
so we had the same client buying us into
maybe three different
companies you know when they moved yeah
so um
we got loads of repeat business we got
loads of word-of-mouth referrals after
that it became easy you hit a sort of
tipping point after about 18 months
18 to 24 months and then it was almost
like and the good thing was with the
model that we had which was a
subscription-based model
i was working walking into the office on
the first month for knowing well i know
i've got 100 grand coming in this month
already
and that's before i pick up a phone
which most business that's what i mean
about bespoke being [__]
it's you know you're not looking for
business all the time it's like well
they're all painters every month what
courses are coming up this month to
service our existing clients right
then what course can we make now to
attract a new client base so
here you go let's say um child
safeguarding was a big thing
all right okay so if we do a good child
safeguarding course we can then go into
approach i don't know
nurseries or anyone that deals with like
children scouts and blah blah blah like
that so it's like
there you go we can now go and target a
new different um
market so let's answer your question
i've got kind of got lost in i wanted to
rumble um and it's refreshing to hear
that
your approach and how you've done it and
the no bs approach to linkedin
like just just go after your market put
content specifically after them rather
than just
hoping that your post gets engagement
and it's not really relevant to who you
want to get
who you are i see some stuff sometimes
and i get it
i get why you're doing it but you've got
you know double click this because it's
a trampoline well well done you've got
17 000 likes
but you know what i mean 17
17 uh comments or engagement with 17
people that actually want to buy your
product
would be a far better post i think
people got too
caught up in the the wrong metric on
linkedin but like i said
340 customers all got through linkedin
through content
written and video in a three or two and
a half year time frame
uh then led to an eight million pound
sale so linkedin made me a millionaire
and i always say that's when people say
like oh linkedin is just
xyz or it's like no if you can't do this
you're not using it right
it's still the best platform in my mind
to win business and i i'm saying this as
an actual for a business
it's different if you're like say a
consultant or a coach or you're a
self-employed person
i get that facebook might be better for
you i get that but i'm talking as an
actual
business for lead gen if you can't
generate leads from the post that you're
doing on linkedin
that convert and continue to convert if
you're doing video content and you're
making the right video content
you know come speak to me fair play
let's move on right so mike win it
it's not actually a real name is it no
no so
what do you want to know why yeah i mean
what i want to know is like i was saying
like probably
two two and a half years ago i started
seeing your content on linkedin
i thought cool this guy's putting out
some controversial stuff but it's pretty
funny he seems to be getting some good
traction and i don't really know what
his own goal with it is
but i'd love to know oh wait main goal i
was bored
i was literally bored like and that was
the worst thing i got given a lump sum
of money told never to come into work
again i didn't have to do a workout
and then you just sat at home and just
like this is mental and then
i was just seeing self-appointed people
on linkedin
all of a sudden they changed their bio
to a number one linkedin trainer or
number one
wealth wealth guru or number one crypto
advisor and i just thought
show me like how are you number one
you've just changed your bio so all it
was i was just parodying the worst
elements of linkedin in my mind
that was all i was doing um but yes so
the name change came and
news flash guess what happens in real
business when you sell your business and
you're good at what you do
businesses pay you
not to compete with them and this is why
a lot of these guru courses are [__]
because if they were really making money
in that thing that they sell you
um they wouldn't be selling their
secrets for 97
because guess what that would make their
real
um business where they generate all this
money a lot harder you do not turn your
customers into competitors it's stupid
as a business model
so guess what i was paid a lot of money
to stay at home and not do what i was
good at
because they didn't want me to go and
set up a rival company and compete with
them again in the next two years
so as part of that and i don't know if
you i don't know if you've ever been
through an exit yourself or if you know
anyone that has but
normally when an exit happens they pay a
lump of money up front as was 90
and then they hold the other 10 in like
an escrow account
right okay but then there's certain
[Music]
um guarantees and warranties put against
that money so it could be
if something comes out the woodwork in
three months time or six months time
that damages the brands they can then
deduct money from this like lump sum so
we had 1.2 million kept in like this
escrow account
and um with
we were bought by american company and
obviously americans haven't got a sense
of humor have they
listened to can laughter in that
absolutely no sort of sense of humor
take themselves a bit too seriously
so um
the american company told the staff that
used to work at
the business that i used to run
previously they weren't allowed to
engage
like or comment on my posts so we just
thought no
because they're a bunch of sad pricks
i'll just change my surname
and remove any reference of my real
business from my linkedin profile
so i did now the joke was i don't know
if you remember i mean i say
i say joke isn't it it's not it's not
funny two and a half years later but the
joke was i was a bad boss type character
so like
not self-aware giving really bad
business advice like employ women
because the
you know um inequality and wages means
that your profit margins increase it's
like really [__]
advice like that or ageism is great for
business you don't employ all people
because
you don't have to keep turning the air
conditioning up and down all day and you
know [__] stuff like that right
so the the joke was i had like a long
suffering pa
and i wanted mike winner because i'm
such a winner at business and such a
great guru because that's what it was it
was like a parody on a guru basically
and um win it where we're from means a
piece of
uh [__] attached to an asshair yeah
that's what our winner is where we're
from so as a joke
she deliberately put mike win it in when
she was changing my name by depot
um rather than mike winner and then i
was stuck with it
and then weirdly so it was only gonna be
a joke for like a couple of weeks
um until i got my main money from the
big business that's the real story was i
was just waiting for money from big
business i didn't want any link to the
old business so i did this like post on
i've changed my name because i'm such a
winner
change it to win it and the the cover
story was my long
long suffering pa did it on purpose and
then people used to ring me up and try
and book me for things as might win it
and i kept saying that's not my real
name and then all of a sudden i thought
[__] so now i've even been booked into
hotels
and people bought plane tickets for me
to do stuff and they've tried to book
and might win its name it blows my mind
but yeah so that was it so that's why my
name was might win it was really because
if i didn't and i said something that
upset the americans i could have cost
cost us 1.2 million
that last 10 got it interesting all
right so then you
wasn't it was a bit more than 10 ah okay
fair play so
you were messing around on linkedin for
a bit and then um
what what happened next you started you
started realizing you started looking
into the entrepreneur stuff and thought
you'd do something there or was that
something
so so i was messing about on linkedin
and then as a joke
i put out that i was doing a um a
demotivational sort i set myself up as
the number one d motivational speaker
so i put up a fake website with fake
dates
um of when i was meant to be doing these
talks and then people started leaving
reviews for them
people started leaving reviews saying
that they'd been to these talks and
seeing me talk for events that had never
taken place
so what the what the [__] going on
here so it was a joke and people were
saying like oh god i remember i saw him
in bournemouth on the the 23rd of
it was amazing so it became a joke
um but the entrepreneur how that
happened was i went to a success
resources event and like anybody else
you know everyone knows that you can
make money in property a lot of people
don't know how but you know
everyone's like acutely aware that
there's a lot of property millionaires
and
you know it's an appreciating asset so
um i knew about that i knew about stocks
and shares and stuff but i kept seeing
these 23 year old
like lambo driving lads telling me that
they can achieve the same thing i
achieved
just working four hours a week doing
forex trading or drop shipping or
affiliate marketing i was just
interested in it so when i went i went
to events in london
and when i sat there and listened to
how these things were being positioned
and being sold and then i was doing my
research on the speakers and seeing that
most of these people had never achieved
the things they were claiming on stage
and i'm sat there in the audience
thinking i've done the things that
you're claiming to have done
and i still wouldn't feel comfortable
enough to try and tell people you can
fit that in a course and sell it and
anyone can achieve these things because
the stats show you that you can't like
i've said before 1 in 500 people become
millionaires
so if you're selling a course telling
people they can become a millionaire
like yes
they can but the reality of it is
there's like
they're probably not and if you're okay
selling a product that's only got a 0.5
success rate whatever industry would
that be allowed so it just bothered me a
little bit and then i started to look
and look at them a little bit it kind of
blew my mind
i started noticing the same patterns in
the way they pitched the words that they
use the language that they use
and purely because i was bored i thought
it was interesting i thought i'm going
to
document this and i
might just ring fence some money because
i couldn't find any unbiased content
online about
if does affiliate marketing really work
really work you know
some people tell me it definitely does
work well they're probably selling it
number one and then you've got people
saying it doesn't work but you're
probably an idiot
i thought the truth would fall somewhere
between them two things
so um i just thought well i'll just make
the content i wish was around
so we just started making content for my
own sanity i put those videos on
linkedin
seemed to piss off a few of the gurus on
there a lot of them tried to get myself
banned mainly pod people
and tried to get me removed off linkedin
so i only put my videos on youtube
just so i had somewhere to go and i
could refer to them on linkedin because
that was where my audience was
um and then my youtube channel just grew
and that was it then like one video sort
of went did quite well
and then that led to netflix being
interested in it
meeting garyvee how was that meeting
garyvee
i watched that video it was interesting
and it looked like he was hyping you
along for a while but
because you were talking about doing a
netflix deal and and this and that
yeah netflix are coming here netflix are
coming here um
the 28th of this month so they're coming
in to film some stuff actually so
i made it to netflix again a lot of
people thought i was bullshitting but
i'll be on netflix cedarwood um
but yeah so meeting garyvee the guy's
weird if i'm honest
he was like hype he tried to pump me for
money actually when i was there
really it's a really interesting setup
so we obviously go there whatever look
at his window empire state building
really impressive setup
um quite inspiring in some ways thinking
like oh if
you could only replicate a smaller
version of this in warrington you're on
to something
i was thinking but anyway um
no i'm talking it's in like the setup
because they had
yeah the office was huge and it was like
that section was for
that was twitch live stream like even
like oh there's a breakout area for
staff i'll just tell you like some of
the things that are in there which kind
of like
made me start thinking so there's a
breakout right there and they're all
gaming but that's they're like they can
do that in their own sign but that's
that's on twitch being live stream so
that's actually generating money for
their business
and it's like oh that's clever whereas
other businesses might
have um a playstation set up or whatever
and it's just stuff going there just for
a bit a bit of a break but he's smart
enough to go oh no we'll stream that on
twitch and we'll get paid while people
are having a break you see what i mean
and then it's all clear it's also
putting us in front of a different
audience and then they've got like a
tick tock group
and it's like they're just doing
tick-tock content and that's like
getting into young business people so
he was positioning himself as the
richard branson of the youtube
generation so i'm like 36. so to me like
richard branson seen as like a
alan sugar they're old school now to
younger people but they're sort of like
real business people that you might look
up to and aspire to
it for my age but garyvee's been clever
and he's almost gone for the next
he's like the social media guru anyway
so when i was in there
he had rooms all set up and people were
waiting in those rooms and people had
paid fifteen thousand dollars to have a
ten minute meeting with him
i was there i was there for free because
he'd asked me to come over but i could
have
that meeting would have been fifteen
thousand dollars and it's clever
they would then pitch whatever they they
wanted to him so it could be like oh hi
gary i've got this idea i'm going to
launch i don't know the podcast judy and
warrington and oh it's going to be a
really good thing
and you'll go like oh yeah great that's
a really good idea i hope it goes well
if you're here get some pictures with
you and i can leave there with my social
media pitch with garyvee
i'm happy i post on social media loads
of people think i'm legit now i've met
garyvee
that was one option or
he says [__] that's a really good idea i
want to invest in it
we'll do your marketing so it was almost
like people were paying to pitch to
garyvee for him to listen he films it
all so he's got his little sound bite
for his youtube channel which then again
interesting okay
almost like a tape instead exactly that
exactly that and it blew my mind i just
thought this is such a smart
setup in some regards but also a bit
[__] shady as well but it was like i
was
it just made me think clever
because obviously his time is valuable
and it was like and then that was why he
was in the room when uber was made so
almost like
they think that they're getting value
just by meeting garyvee and then when it
comes to him saying i'm interested in
investing your business you're basically
giving them their money back to get
percentage of their business back you
know what i mean
so i thought it was quite a clever setup
smart and it created content for him
and then so first of all he wasn't
really interested in what we had to do
it's hard to explain the entrepreneur
sort of without seeing it it's hard to
kind of understand it or explain it so
i told him and then when i told him i
was at his event he went a bit weird
and then um he asked me to cut the
cameras asked me who the worst
entrepreneur was
told him he was bouncing off the walls
yes yes who was it
uh no comment i will i will say it's not
going to say it now
if there's a there's a time and a place
where i'll reveal who it was
um but anyway so yes i don't like that
person the worst person in the industry
yada yada
and then it was um we can say it's the
netflix and then he goes how serious
about your siren it's like well pretty
serious gary i've been doing it for a
[__] year
um and then he was like we can make this
happen for you
um i wonder how soon we can do this for
you we can create and take the network
story for twenty five thousand dollars i
went what
what it's like if you are serious i was
like no i don't need you to do this for
me
but i think a lot of people would have
buckled there because it's normal client
because i again like i said i didn't
know who these people were so i wasn't
like a garyvee fan
i wasn't like a massive graveyard i
thought to me this was just a guy that
said do you want to meet up
i'd obviously seen he had a big audience
and stuff and i thought there might be
something in this
for either the entrepreneur which we're
filming anyway just know what i mean
or there might be like an opportunity to
work together here so i was going there
open-minded let's see what comes of this
um rather than i'm a master gary v fan i
can't believe he's invited me over here
let's get our pictures taken and stuff
for our social media i was actually
really really ill when we were there as
well i nearly didn't go
i didn't know i got food poisoning on
the plane i didn't i didn't even go out
in new york at
all my memories yeah it was mad but um
anyway so he tried to pump 25 grand and
then when i said no he suddenly changed
attack and was like i was only joking it
was a test it was a test to see how much
you're really committed to this and
you've impressed me there and i thought
you little sly bastard
you've tried to pump me for 25 grand i'm
not having it
and then you've backtracked and you've
gone like oh we can work together we'll
sort the netflix thing
out so i knew at that moment in time
like oh no
you want me to do this with you so you
look like the good guy
and i know this might sound mad i can do
i can sort netflix out myself
turns out we have done like again you
can do all these things yourself you
don't need people to shortcut these
these things for you but most times you
can do this stuff so
um that was it with gary never seen or
heard from him since
that's all um that's interesting yeah
proper weird guy but during the meeting
as well there'd be times where he'd
stand up and start shouting at someone
like
and then but we obviously cut that all
out because
that's like another episode we've got
like it's gary a good guy or is gary a
bad guy episode we can put out two
different versions of that
so interesting okay cool but weirdly as
well like he is just
like some people like oh what's gary vee
like meeting him he is exactly like
every other business owner i've ever met
pretty much
ego fragile what what's the audience
think of me when when i said that
what was the audience like when this
guru was speaking you know just do you
think they like me and stuff like it's
just like
they're all the same they're all the
same and all these people it's weird now
because now
oddly i meet people that i meet a lot of
people that other people might look up
to and think like oh it must be amazing
meeting that person
but they are just as amazing or
interesting as [__] lad that sits
next to natalie um
when you're on the intelli sales or your
your team leader in
bt where i used to work or your team
leader you see
what they're all pretty much the same
he's mad really
how how un uh
unimpressive they unimpressively is that
the word do you know what i mean yeah i
think it's the word yeah
i do i see where you're coming from is
there literally i always think i was
thinking like sometimes people oh you're
funny in youtube content i think i'm the
biggest disappointment in real life
like i'm a businessman that makes
youtube content i don't see myself as a
youtuber do you know what i mean
yeah yeah it's mad sometimes and that's
how come i think again with any of the
content i'm making i'm coming
at a different angle from a lot of these
people and that's why i'm not asked like
if i woke up tomorrow and i lost 30
000 subscribers of followers off
linkedin it it literally makes zero
difference to me
because it is not a metric i value or
put any value on if i lost
10 000 youtube subscribers it makes no
difference to where i make my money from
or it makes no difference to um
my value or the work that i do in a
weird way
i'm doing this for a different i i'm not
doing it for that so it kind of
and that's why sometimes when people say
like you need to jump on this hack or
that
hack or you need to um growth hacking
and stuff it's like
you're kind of valuing the wrong thing i
think and you're growing in the wrong
way
i think does that make sense yeah it
does
to i mean it does to a certain extent i
mean what i wanted to ask as well mike
was is there anyone that you thought
you're gonna bust as an entrepreneur
that actually came across as a straight
shooter who thought i was
pumping all these people for money and
then when you went to do something with
them they were actually pretty straight
or they've all been pretty crooked
no it's relative isn't it and it's
subjective
so again like one man's entrepreneur is
another man's
i don't know inspiration there is no
hard and fast sort of rule i think you
know if someone is or not and i will say
this
if you think my content is directed at
you and you do these things and you
think
i am talking about you you're 100
right if my content offends you
and you think i'm out of order for my
content you are probably the problem
it's interesting someone messaged me
today on linkedin or left a comment on
linkedin and saying he's part of like a
market marketing organization
and i've got some proper die hard
supporters and fans within
his sort of peer group yet equally i've
got
there's loads of marketers that hate
what i do because i'm kind of
i'm not exposing maybe too strong a word
but i'm talking about things
or the tricks of the trade openly i
suppose like getting the getting the
amazon best seller with a blank book i
thought that was genius
like i was i could have just told you
how to do it
and everyone have been like oh yeah
that's just opinion but the difference
is with my content i think it's it's not
opinion it's fact
i'm actually going to get a bestseller
with a blank book to show you how
easy it is to game that that system how
easy it is and [__] that actual
accolade is
do you know what i mean yeah yeah yeah
it's i'm not just saying let's just take
i'm not just saying this guru is a
entrepreneur and it's just my opinion
from the outside
i will go and drop six grand on his
course do his course for a year
pay someone to do it full time target
that person in my office to do that
thing
and reveal that real results so i've not
just got a [__] review about your
product if your product is good
i will say it's good just so far
absolutely none of the courses i have
done
i've got anywhere near the results
they've promised not one
not a single one i've got anywhere near
the results promised in any of their
marketing
and i'm not an idiot i'm not an idiot
that's deliberately trying to fail
like that's a stupid business idea i
want them all to work i said this at the
very beginning
i want every investment that i made
during this entrepreneurship
phase that i've done the last two years
to work
why wouldn't i because i would like to
become a millionaire in crypto
drop shipping affiliate marketing um
crypto mining
stocks and shares property flipping no
money down
i'd love to have done all these things
but the reality is
not one of them has got anywhere near
the returns
and again it's not through fault uh
through photo train or wand of train i'm
trying my best to be successful and it's
not like and
this is why i think a lot of people fail
if you're in a job and you've never
worked for yourself or run a business
and then you're trying to learn a new
topic say like past
um drop shipping let's just say you've
got two learning curves there you've got
i'm now safe self-employed got to be
self-motivated and have to run a
business
and i've got to learn about drop
shipping see what i mean well i've
already done half of this learning i can
do all this bit i do that as my day job
i've done that previously i've
successfully scaled and sold this
business so i only have to learn i've
got to do half as much learning as most
of the people that would buy these
courses
and i still can't
last succeed blimey all for your
entertainment go on there
youtube.com forward slash might win it
and watch me lose 32 grand
but yeah so yeah that was the biggest
one i honestly believed that there might
have been something more in that
but it was not to be so
that's unknown you know what actually
does make money
um being good at something i like um
and working really hard and getting
customers to buy that thing or pay you
for the thing you're good at
weirdly i've made more from linkedin
banners
in the last six months that i've made
from any of my passive income
investments for the last two years it's
not a surprise to most people
so i mean and that goes to show if you
actually do something
that you're good at and you charge
people for it you will make more money
than trying to
find this mystical passive income thing
that works now passive income is a real
thing
but that's long term so my stocks and
shares make make a lot of money
but i've not been able to touch that
money i've left it in because the longer
i leave it in
um the more it'll be worth
property all my properties have gone up
in value so that makes money but it's
not tangible money in my
hand or in my pocket it's just money
that i can't touch for 10
15 20 years so as unsexy as it sounds
passive income works if you're willing
to wait 25 to 30 years for that passive
income
if you're trying to invest in stocks and
shares and short things and try and jump
on the next trend and buy and sell
and try and flip your money in seven 14
days you want to hide into nothing for
the most part
there are exceptions like i said but for
the general population
you're not going to game and make a
quick win
if they don't exist and you've tried
most of them you know
yeah yeah yeah and i'm gonna start doing
something now where i'm going to start
trying
a lot more and start me it's hard when
you're trying to do youtube content
because you want to show people what
your idea is and then you want to show
people but
i'm not going to give a result after
seven days so
some of these things have been in for
one year two years and i've not even put
the content out yet
it's hard when you're doing stuff like
this so i'm gonna start
i think uh maybe doing like weekly
updates so it'll be shorter updates
whether that be a
blog i don't know whether it be i don't
know
a forum or something where it could be
do you know what we've done this and
that's that we invested in this it's
made 50 pound this week was made a
hundred pound this week or
we've still got one of the crypto mining
rigs so last week for example we
switched from
ravencoin to ether so we swats
yeah ethereum so we swapped coins now
that's not worthy of a youtube video but
that might be of interest to someone
that's actually thinking you know you
know what
i like my winnings channel he's open and
honest he's not trying to sell us
anything
he's giving his real results why has he
moved to that coin
that's interesting to me because he's
not trying to do it through his own
affiliate link or whatever so i want to
know why the reasons has and i might
copy him for doing that if it works
that's kind of
where i see my content going if you
think but i can't really do that on
youtube
because that's not work that would be a
30-second video there's no point in the
30-second video on youtube
which i mean fair play mate is that the
main main next plan in the pipeline then
moving on from the entrepreneur stuff in
there
no so i've got the podcast studio again
i only made this because of a lockdown
does it look all right on camera but
it's weird because i'm actually talking
to a camera here so
we put it full screen for the video
version so everyone can have a good look
around
now yeah so so this i'm gonna we can
brand this as anybody we can change the
color the lighting's in here we can
change the background so this is so if
anyone wants to have a podcast produced
they don't know what the
what they're doing we can produce it for
you
and we can do video so there's that we
can do um podcast packages for people
that wants a podcast but then we've got
the video editing
and content packages if people want to
raise their profile and gain links uh
sorry leads from linkedin
so i've got that side which is called
iron productions so that's uh
sort of the main business that we do and
then we've got
a podcast that's going to be linkedin
only and that's
designed to teach people a sort of skill
or thing every
well every episode that will benefit
their business so people can watch for
free
and we will get experts in that do
things really really well
and they can tell other people on
linkedin
sort of their tip or things that they do
in their business that makes them sort
of number one and they can
then obviously can be implemented we've
got that i've got a secret business that
i'm building at the moment that when i
release that i think is going to be my
next big one
that's in development stage at the
moment i've just dropped 15 000
pounds on uh website development for
that i'm not going to say anything about
that yet in terms of what it is but
it's good and then i've got the
entrepreneur so in theory i've got like
four things i'm doing at the moment
as well as like just talking about on
linkedin um
and then the entrepreneur we've just
took a ladder called chris
um and he is looking at
all ways that we can possibly i think
there's something in it it's weird
it was never the end game it it's kind
of developed into
i get probably 140 messages
every week saying what do you think of
this thing what you think of that thing
do you think this guy's legit you think
that guy's legit what about this what
about that can you help me do this
so i think there's something in that so
i'm gonna have a look with chris see if
there's anything we can develop there
and
maybe build like a sort of community
almost like rotten but is it called
rotten tomatoes you know
the film critics oh yeah for the film
reviews and stuff yeah where we can
almost go look i'll try something
i'll give it my score and then the
community can also
talk about their experiences with this
thing and it's almost like a place where
you can go
and it's almost like it's not like a
safe safe place for these people
that are impressed and it's not just to
say these things don't work i'm hoping
that some people say actually this did
work or
you know i have been flipping products
on etsy or ebay and i make
seven 700 quid a month doing this and
it's like okay well let's tell us how
did you do it and
let's all help each other because you
know
just because it's interesting i suppose
so that says we've got loads going on
yeah loads of the pipelines also man all
right
we've covered we've covered just about
everything i think might have covered
your story you've covered what's going
on with your businesses we've covered a
bit about the series
your story i always say everyone's got a
story everyone's got a book in it but
most people should leave it there i
think linkedin's become that isn't it
right just watch autobiographies
no one cares today really that's what
you got you know like that's what i
would say like
you like so you said to me before like
oh what you've done is quite interesting
but really
it's not really that interesting just i
had an idea
executed it didn't tell anyone about it
while i was doing it and just did it
like
that was it stay off social keep your
head down just do it
get it done well some might we like to
ask everyone that comes on is there one
thing
that you think businesses should be
doing with digital marketing that's
going to help actually grow their
business
making evergreen content really is it's
that it's
it's actually thinking of lead
generating content
and it's things where if you've got
sales guys in your business
that repeat the same thing over and over
again
on each call with every client why the
hell haven't you turned that into
either an animated explainer video or a
piece of content
that you can put on the on the internet
somewhere
that then talks your ideal client avatar
because you are then reducing a stage in
your sales cycle
it's like that is the is what i think
people need to be doing so it might not
be the answer you're looking for it
might not really understood it properly
but
that is something that i tell all our
clients
no make these bits of content you don't
want to do just a
i don't know you don't just do sort of
disposable content you want to be really
thinking right
okay that speaks to that ideal client
avatar
and i can make sure that this bit of
content is always seen by the auto
client avatar and then that will
send people to my business as a
qualified lead that's what i think
so that's pretty sound advice to be fair
makes sense to me
all right uh well thanks coming on mike
um who
want to connect with yourself what's the
best way for them to get in touch with
you or your business
youtube's the best you know that's
probably where my best content is that's
probably where
i'm most interested in growing or
linkedin
i can't accept any more followers
anymore connections or whatever
i do do a call every week i delete 25 to
connections every week there's a tip for
you um
if you want to grow your audience start
getting rid of people that's what's
worked for me
there is a reason for that as well but
i'll have to tell you about that another
time
but yeah so just uh linkedin might win
it or youtube might win it
nice man and if you could thank one just
one person for having a positive
influence on yourself and your career
who would that be and why
um so this guy died recently i would say
without him knowing he was
my mentor he didn't charge me for it he
didn't throw him in a facebook group he
didn't charge me 12 grand a year
it was martin machin um he
when i first wanted to set up my startup
when i first went to leave and set my
own business
sorry leave his business he said i think
you should go it's good for you you're
ready now to go and
sort of do this on your own but if it
doesn't work out you've always got a job
here
and then i spoke to him probably every
three to six months when different
things come up that i didn't think i
could handle or understand or struggled
with
he'd always like listen help me out
never ask for anything in return the
only thing i do is like buy a meal every
so often
so he was like a mentor to me and a
massive influence probably more than he
even realizes
unfortunately he died recently like
we've not been able to go to a funeral
or anything because of you know corona
virus and that
so it's martin really and hopefully
there's some people watching this that
know him it had a massive impact on
people
that work with him one of the nicest
guys in business as well and proof that
he can be a good guy do things right
and be successful well thanks again mike
appreciate you coming on
and um if you've enjoyed the show be
sure to hit subscribe whether it's on
apple podcast spotify wherever the heck
you get your podcast
or follow us on youtube and um yeah
thanks very much for everyone tuning in
appreciate it
are you tired of constantly hunting for
new customers
you could be missing out on regular
inbound opportunities all because your
website isn't on the first page of
google
perhaps you're already spending lots of
money on advertising but your website is
failing to convert
all of your hard-earned visitors into a
consistent flow
of new customers if you'd like to learn
more about our unusual approach that
brings idle clients
straight to you connect with sam dunning
on linkedin or
book a free 20-minute consultation by
webchoiceuk.com
that's webchoiceuk.com
subscribe today for more digital
marketing sales and business growth tips
from the experts